Mystvearn: You're
a peculiar one.
You act like a clown,
but no simple jester
could possibly know
the name of the
Secret Spell of Frozen Time.
Just who is this old guy?
Hym: Your guess is
as good as mine.
I thought he only
came along to heal us.
No, wait a minute...
Th-This is crazy...
He's right.
Mr. Beast:
No, it's necessary.
Don't let me down, Popp.
Mystvearn [thought]:
Such fluid movement...
Wow. Look at him go!
He's so nimble that...
it's almost as if Mystvearn is
fighting a feather in the wind!
Larhart [thought]: For anyone
able to move around like that,
sticking close to their
opponent is actually safer
than a ranged assault.
Hym [thought]:
And he fights like he's
a walking martial
arts textbook.
Enough games. Stop
clinging to me, you pest.
Hyunckel: Popp, do it.
Now's your chance!
Y-Yeah, I know...
Let me concentrate.
Popp [thought]: Medroa...
C'mon...
Don't let me mess
this up, Medroa...
Maam: Uh, Popp? Why are you
casting two Crack spells?
Is something wrong?
Huh?!
W-Well... I guess...
Maybe I... just can't
handle the pressure.
Popp: I mean, I've
never had to before...
You know how everything always
comes down to Dai or Hyunckel.
But now, everybody's counting
on me as their last hope.
Honestly, I'm not sure if
I can even carry that weight.
I know it's pathetic...
but I just can't get...
my hands to stop shaking...
Come on, don't be an idiot.
We've all seen how
strong you've become...
Of course you're nervous.
Anybody would be.
But use that power
you've worked for!
Even Grand Master is
giving his best!
Whoa-aah!
A direct hit?!
Mr. Beast: Whoopsie.
You've gotta be kidding...
Mr. Beast: Some may
call me withered,
however, I think
of myself as "cured."
With my years of training,
I'm able to float like
a leaf on the wind...
absorbing the
force of any attack.
It's one of the ultimate
skills of my fighting style.
And that single hit has
confirmed my suspicions
about your true
nature, Mystvearn...
Because your body
is abnormally cold.
Mr. Beast: I've encountered
such an enchantment before...
It was over a decade ago,
when we did battle with
the Dark Lord Hadlar.
All: What?!
Popp: Hadlar...
Seriously? You fought Hadlar?
Mr. Beast: Indeed. Remember
it like it was yesterday.
After all, who could
ever forget fighting...
alongside Avan himself.
All: What?!
Mr. Beast: Yes.
Now, on this occasion,
Avan conjured a legendary spell
for the first and last time...
And that spell
was none other...
than the Secret
Spell of Frozen Time!
It was seventeen years ago,
at the peak of the
Dark Lord's reign.
Mr. Beast: In those days,
the Hero traveled
with his companions -
Roka the Warrior and
Leira the Priest -
on a quest to rid the
world of Hadlar's blight.
You want to cast the
Secret Spell of Frozen Time?!
Roka: Well... Fine.
What does it do, anyway?
Avan: Exactly what
it sounds like.
I've read the books.
It's able to freeze someone
at a moment in time...
Which means it can hold
them in place indefinitely.
Whomever it's cast upon
is rendered immobile -
almost if they've been
struck by a Kaclang...
and they also become
impervious to any force.
But unlike the effects
of a Kaclang spell,
this incantation
will even stop
the biological functions of
whoever it's conjured upon.
After all, from
their point of view,
you have effectively
halted time itself.
And as it happens,
it's useful for more than
just protecting oneself...
Because it stops the enemy
in their tracks, too.
Sir Avan...
Do you mean you intend
to defeat Lord Hadlar...
using that?
Defeat him, yes. But it won't
be enough to finish him off...
Nevertheless, it does give us a
chance to seal him away forever.
We could secure the
world an era of peace.
"An era of peace," huh? Sure.
I've done the research, Roka.
All the ancient tomes
agree it's possible.
But there is a bit of a catch.
Today... is our only
chance to cast it.
Avan: During that
once-in-centuries
total solar eclipse.
Lucky you're a fast reader.
[hearty laugh]
Well!
I stand corrected,
books really are useful.
Sounds like a good find.
I've always said,
"the strongest thing about
that Avan is his intellect."
Right, old pal?
[chuckling]
C'mon!
On your feet. Let's
get this thing going.
We don't want to miss our
once-in-a-century chance, do we?
Hadlar's about to
regret messing with us!
Well, there's
one more catch...
I'm afraid you both
won't be joining me.
Roka... Leira...
You'll both disagree, but this
fight will be far too dangerous.
I won't ask you to come along.
Wh...
Are you nuts?
Can you even hear
how stupid you sound?!
I meant exactly what
I just said, my friend.
There's no way around it.
This party must be
temporarily disbanded.
But, Sir Avan...
What... What makes
you think that?
Avan: The full scope
of this enchantment
still isn't
fully understood.
All that's certain is, it
uses the power of nature...
So it stands to reason that it
will work on the Dark Lord...
All the same,
I don't know if I'll be able to
control the spell's aftershock.
If it's too strong,
and I can't hold it off...
Well, then in
the worst case...
You'll wind up frozen in
time along with Lord Hadlar.
Avan: Even if we do win
the world its era of peace...
If there's no one
around to enjoy it,
then we've won
it for nothing.
That's why I need you to leave
this one to me - understand?
"Understand"?!
Yeah, I understand.
Brokeena: Are they
really fighting again?
Matoriv: They're
always fighting.
But something about this time
seems a little more serious
than the usual antics.
Roka: Let's work together and
fight this creep as a team -
the same way we've always
done it? Huh, tough guy?
Isn't that the point?
Huh? I'm not sitting
this one out, Avan.
I'm not afraid of danger.
I can't allow you to take
that kind of risk, Roka.
Why?!
It's got nothing to do with
glory. Don't be so thick.
I want you to survive
so you can look after
the woman you love and
build a life together.
You... You knew about us?
I mean, we were
going to tell you...
Besides. It changes nothing!
It's not like I'm serious
about this girl or anything!
Not serious?
Yeah!
Wait! I didn't
mean it like that!
My mistake. It seemed
serious enough to me.
Wh-? I - now let me explain!
No excuses!
You need to take
responsibility...
You're about to
become a father.
Y-You... What did you...
Leira: Sir Avan...
You already knew that
I was with child?
But I'd only just
found out myself.
I hadn't even told Roka yet.
Avan: Roka can
get quite awkward
about anything that makes
him feel vulnerable.
Even if he knew, he'd
still try to hide it.
When we were younger,
he'd always saying things
like "I live by the sword" or
"I'll never fall
in love with a girl
and let myself go all soft."
I know he can
be a handful, but...
his heart belongs
to you. Look after him.
Any child born in a
time of war deserves this.
A chance at a life of peace.
When you do bring this
life into the world,
give it a good,
kind name, Leira.
Yes. Of course, I will.
Matoriv: That's
just the way he is.
M-Matoriv.
He really can't
help himself, huh?
Only Avan would put
himself on the line
for somebody who
hasn't been born.
Funny to hear him
talk about "awkward".
His heart belongs
to somebody as well.
I'll keep him out of trouble.
There's no girlfriend to
mourn me if I bite it.
No promises, but I'll do my best
to get him back in one piece.
I make it a point to never let
a lady cry if I can help it.
[laughing]
Matoriv: Come along,
Brokeena. Let's get moving.
I owe you an apology,
Grand Master.
I wish I didn't
have to drag you into
such a perilous
battle in your state.
Nothing to worry
about, my dear boy.
[wheezing]
With my illness,
there aren't many more
battles ahead, anyways.
Not this again...
I'm counting on you, though.
I need the Dark
Lord distracted.
Even just for a moment.
A feat which only the
greatest martial artist
in the realm can accomplish.
"Greatest in the realm" huh?
Am I famous or something?
Yeah.
Like myself, you're
one of the few old geezers
still kicking around that
the world hasn't forgotten.
[laughing]
I'll take care
of the riffraff.
Matoriv: Good luck
to you, Avan.
Avan [thought]: Until
I've completed my Strash
and perfected my
Sword Technique,
I won't be a
match for Hadlar.
From where we stand,
there's only one
certain road to peace...
And this is it.
Sizzle!
Kaswoosh!
Boom!
Secret Spell of Frozen Time!
Avan [thought]: N-No...
It's just as I feared...
I'm not... I'm not
strong enough to...
Mr. Beast: It came at a price,
but the spell
worked as expected.
Hadlar and Avan
both stood frozen
in the middle
of their struggle.
Neither even blinked an eye.
For a period of over a year,
their time remained stopped...
With their leader indisposed,
soon the Dark Army
headed for the hills.
And so, brief though it was,
the Hero succeeded in bringing a
season of peace upon the world.
When you came to me,
seeking training in the ways
of the Warrior-Master Style,
I truly felt the
hand of fate at work.
Mr. Beast: When their
daughter was born,
the name Roka and Leira
decided to give her...
was Maam.
I fought by your parents'
side for many years.
Grand master.
Popp [thought]:
What are the odds...
So Grand Master
Brokeena was a
member of Master
Avan's party, too?
Hyunckel [thought]: I knew
there was more to him
than he was letting on.
I suppose that explains it.
If you were one of
Avan's meddlesome allies,
then there's no mystery to how
you know of the secret spell.
Mr. Beast: [chuckle]
Hang on. Grand Master,
didn't you say that this
Secret Spell of Frozen time
is supposed to paralyze its
target like a Kaclang does?
Wouldn't that mean if
it's cast on Mystvearn...
Shouldn't he be
stuck in place?
Mr. Beast: Not necessarily.
Avan said the
incantation was useful
for more than
just protection...
Our foe must have a way to
wield its power like a shield.
That's what I suspect.
I haven't worked out
how he's doing it,
but this keeps him
able to move around
while the spell still
somehow prevents him
from taking any damage...
Which is why all of our
attacks have had no effect.
Because time itself
is frozen for him,
his body has been locked in
an indestructible state.
Therefore, as long as
the enchantment is active,
he remains impervious
to physical strikes.
It's like fighting an opponent
who's shielded
by a Kaclang spell,
but is still able
to throw a punch.
Well observed.
You're correct.
But you still don't
you see, do you?
Knowing that changes nothing.
You've already declared
your own death sentence.
I can fight while my form
remains frozen in time...
That means, no
matter what you do...
It won't harm me.
I am invincible.
Popp [thought]: He's right.
There goes our plan.
An enemy who can still attack
while they're under the
effects of a Kaclang spell...
They'd be unbeatable.
Mr. Beast: Now, now.
Not to fear, Popp.
You see, there is
still one exception
to his indomitable state...
and that's the spell Matoriv
has handed down to you.
On the day we used
the Secret Spell,
Matoriv could do
nothing but watch
as Avan was forced
to sacrifice himself.
Wracked with guilt, he
decided to keep such a fate
from befalling
his allies again.
He created a spell
to rival it...
An Extreme
Annihilation Spell...
That he called Medroa!
Mr. Beast: Yes.
Mystvearn: You're just
a withered little leaf...
Mystvearn: Once I catch you,
you'll crumble in my hand.
If all you do is
flutter around like this,
then Larhart would've made
a more worthy adversary.
This is the end - you clown!
Grand Master!
Mr. Beast: [roaring]
Mr. Beast [thought]: Now
all I need is an instant.
So hear me, mighty
gods of the fist...
And grant me the strength
of my youth one last time!
Once more into the breach!
To ensure this next generation
sees a peaceful future!
Maam [thought]: Oh, wow...
If it wasn't Mystvearn,
Grand Master's first strike
alone would have ended this.
I had no idea that
he was this powerful
when he fights
at full strength!
Popp, are... Are you...
You bet I am.
It's now or never...
This is our only shot -
and I'm not gonna miss it.
I know you won't.
Popp: They really
were amazing.
Weren't they, Maam?
All of them.
Avan, your parents,
Matoriv, and Grand Master...
The only reason
we're here right now
is thanks to these great
people who came before us...
Who blazed the
trail to victory.
If I can't pull this off...
then I ain't no
Disciple of Avan!
Here goes everything.
I'll make sure that
this Medroa hits the mark...
even if it's the last
thing that I ever do!
Hym [thought]:
That's the spirit.
Get back on your feet
and don't let up.
It's tenacity like this that
makes a real Disciple of Avan.
I've had my fill of
your futile resistance!
I grow bored.
Popp [thought]: Focus...
Maam [thought]: Get out
of there, Grand Master!
Mr. Beast: Warrior
Master Style...
Earth Wyrm Eruption Strike!
Now, Popp! This is it!
Maam: That attack is about
to make the floor explode.
When Mystvearn's
knocked over,
you'll have a moment
to take him off-guard.
I've got it!
Mr. Beast: It was a dud?
No, don't!
Very clever.
I suppose it's
possible that Matoriv
could have devised a
spell able to defeat me.
Mr. Beast: But nowadays,
I can only last about
a minute at full power.
The ravages of age
certainly take their toll.
I didn't think I'd
lost that much stamina
since our fight
against Hadlar.
Your miraculous plan to turn
the tide of this battle...
appears to be foiled,
little Mage.
Or are you willing to sacrifice
the Grand Master to
bring me to an end?
Maam: Master!
Mr. Beast: Forget about me,
Popp. Do it! Cast the spell.
My days have been numbered
for far too long as it is.
It's better that I
perish than all of you.
I know what I have
to do... Grand Master.
Popp, you can't...
Mystvearn: He won't.
He's bluffing.
You so-called
disciples of justice...
are never willing
to pay the hard price.
Don't be so sure.
I'll do what I have to do.
And when this is all over...
Master Avan and Grand
Master Brokeena...
are going to enjoy the
peace we've won for them!
What?
Watch and see.
Medroa!
Zoom!
Hyunckel [thought]:
He'll never dodge that!
Hym [thought]: Get him!
Erase his existence!
Crocodine [thought]:
There's no escape!
[horrified gasp]
G-Grand Master...
Po... Popp!
What just happened?
Where did they go?
Avan: Caught in the
path of the Medroa spell
meant for Mystvearn,
Popp and Brokeena have
vanished in a dreadful flash.
As the party scrambles
over their loss,
Hyunckel realizes his old
mentor's greatest secret...
But before he can act,
the Reaper appears -
signaling Avan's defeat.
And soon,
the century-spanning
relationship of the beings
who bear the Dark King's
name will be revealed...
So don't miss
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"Myst and Kill".